The state’s total now stands at 4200 cases.

More than 240 of the new cases were still under investigation, while 28 had been linked to known outbreaks. There are 1803 active cases in Victoria.

The number of Victorians in hospital fighting the virus continues to grow with 85 in medical care, including 26 in intensive care, an increase in nine from Monday.

A man in this 30s is among 26 Victorians fighting the virus in intensive care. 85 Victorians are being treated for the virus in hospital.

Just four percent of the cases identified over the past week were acquired overseas.

Chief health officer Brett Sutton said 21 intensive care patients were on ventilators.

Almost 22,000 tests were conducted on Monday, with more than 1.17 millions Victorians tested since January 1.

HOSPITAL BANS VISITORS
The Royal Melbourne Hospital has banned visitors due to the escalating coronavirus threat.

The ban also applies to the Royal Women’s Hospital, however patients in the birth and postnatal wards were allowed one support person in during labour.

An exception also applied at all Royal Melbourne Hospital sites if the visitor was classified as an essential caregiver.

The new policy came into effect on Tuesday.

The hospital advised: “Where possible phone calls and video chat are encouraged between patients and consumers and visitors”.

The tightening of visitor restrictions came as the Royal Melbourne Hospital established a 24-bed ward to deal with an influx of aged-care residents

HOTEL QUARANTINE PROBE CALLS FOR INFORMATION
The inquiry into Victoria’s bungled hotel quarantine system has appealed for anyone with relevant information to come forward.

Ahead of its first public hearing on Monday the inquiry has called for assistance from anyone with information relevant to its terms of reference.

The inquiry has been setup to probe failures in the hotel quarantine system that led to significant outbreaks of COVID-19.

Under the inquiry’s terms of reference the decisions and communications between government agencies, hotel operators and private contractors are set to be probed.

As well as allegations of serious breaches by private contractors, the inquiry is tipped to also probe illegal cash payments to guards, and billing rorts exposed in the quarantine debacle.

Anyone who has information relevant to the inquiry is encouraged to contact the 1800 005 010 or email contact@quarantineinquiry.vic.gov.au.

STAGE 4 MAY BE INEVITABLE
Further restrictions are inevitable if Victoria’s soaring coronavirus tally continues to rise, the chief health officer says.

Prof Brett Sutton said on Tuesday further restrictions would need to be considered if community transmission of COVID-19 didn’t start to decline.

Daniel Andrews said he wouldn’t rule out the possibility of Stage 4 restrictions.

But government sources have denied planning is already underway for a move to the tougher lockdown.

Speculation has increased that a tightening of restrictions is imminent.

It has been fuelled in part by a text message that has gone viral purporting to detail what Stage 4 restrictions could look like.

The message claims options under consideration include limited exercise opportunities, office lockdowns and curfews.